README.md, before:

# Minter PHP SDK

## About

This is a pure PHP SDK for working with <b>Minter</b> blockhain

## Installing

```bash
composer require minter/minter-php-sdk
```

## Using MinterAPI

You can get all valid responses and full documentation at [Minter Node Api](https://minter-go-node.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html)

Create MinterAPI instance

```php
use Minter\MinterAPI;

$nodeUrl = 'http://156.123.34.5:8841'; // example of a node url

$api = new MinterAPI($nodeUrl);
```

### getBalance

Returns coins list and balance of an address.

``
getBalance(string $minterAddress): \stdClass
``

###### Example

```php
$api->getBalance('Mxfe60014a6e9ac91618f5d1cab3fd58cded61ee99')

// result: {MTN: 1000000, TESTCOIN: 2000000}

```

### getNonce

Returns current nonce of an address.

``
getNonce(string $minterAddress): integer
``

###### Example

```php
$api->getNonce('Mxfe60014a6e9ac91618f5d1cab3fd58cded61ee99')

// 5
```

### send

Returns the result of sending <b>signed</b> tx.

``
send(string $tx): \stdClass
``

###### Example

```php
$api->send('f873010101aae98a4d4e540000000000000094fe60014a6e9ac91618f5d1cab3fd58cded61ee99880de0b6b3a764000080801ca0ae0ee912484b9bf3bee785f4cbac118793799450e0de754667e2c18faa510301a04f1e4ed5fad4b489a1065dc1f5255b356ab9a2ce4b24dde35bcb9dc43aba019c')

// {code: 0, tx: "Mt2f37ad1c22cf912c02a9f00c735a039d7da3169b"}
```

### getTransactionsFrom

Returns list of outgoing transactions of an address

``
getTransactionsFrom(string $minterAddress): \stdClass
``

###### Example

```php
$api->getTransactionsFrom('Mxfe60014a6e9ac91618f5d1cab3fd58cded61ee99')

// result: {code: 0, result: [{ height: 1, index: 0, proof: ..., tx: 'Mx...', tx_result: {...} }]}
```

### getTransactionsTo

Returns list of incoming transactions of an address

``
getTransactionsTo(string $minterAddress): \stdClass
``

###### Example

```php
$api->getTransactionsTo('Mxfe60014a6e9ac91618f5d1cab3fd58cded61ee99')

// result: {code: 0, result: [{ height: 1, index: 0, proof: ..., tx: 'Mx...', tx_result: {...} }]}
```

### getStatus

Returns node status info

``
getStatus(): \stdClass
``

### getValidators

Returns list of active validators

``
getValidators(): \stdClass
``

### estimateCoinBuy

Return estimate of buy coin transaction

``
estimateCoinBuy(string $coinToSell, string $valueToBuy, string $coinToBuy): \stdClass
``

### estimateCoinSell

Return estimate of sell coin transaction

``
estimateCoinSell(string $coinToSell, string $valueToSell, string $coinToBuy): \stdClass
``

### getCoinInfo

Returns information about coin.

``
getCoinInfo(string $coin): \stdClass
``

### getBlock

Returns block data at given height.

``
getBlock(int $height): \stdClass
``

### getTransaction

Returns transaction info

``
getTransaction(string $hash): \stdClass
``

### getBaseCoinVolume

Returns amount of base coin (BIP or MNT) existing in the network. It counts block rewards, premine and relayed rewards.

``
getBaseCoinVolume(int $height): \stdClass
``

### getCandidate

Returns candidate’s info by provided public_key. It will respond with 404 code if candidate is not found.

``
getCandidate(string $publicKey): \stdClass
``

### getCandidates

Returns list of candidates

``
getCandidates(): \stdClass
``


## Using MinterSDK

### Sign transaction

Returns a signed tx

###### Example

* Sign the <b>SendCoin</b> transaction

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;
use Minter\SDK\MinterCoins\MinterSendCoinTx;

$tx = new MinterTx([
    'nonce' => $nonce,
    'gasPrice' => 1,
    'gasCoin' => 'MNT',
    'type' => MinterSendCoinTx::TYPE,
    'data' => [
        'coin' => 'MTN',
        'to' => 'Mxfe60014a6e9ac91618f5d1cab3fd58cded61ee99',
        'value' => '10'
    ],
    'payload' => '',
    'serviceData' => ''
]);

$tx->sign('your private key')
```

* Sign the <b>SellCoinTx</b> transaction

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;
use Minter\SDK\MinterCoins\MinterSellCoinTx;

$tx = new MinterTx([
    'nonce' => $nonce,
    'gasPrice' => 1,
    'gasCoin' => 'MNT',
    'type' => MinterSellCoinTx::TYPE,
    'data' => [
         'coinToSell' => 'MNT',
         'valueToSell' => '1',
         'coinToBuy' => 'TEST'
    ],
    'payload' => '',
    'serviceData' => ''
]);

$tx->sign('your private key')
```

* Sign the <b>BuyCoinTx</b> transaction

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;
use Minter\SDK\MinterCoins\MinterBuyCoinTx;

$tx = new MinterTx([
    'nonce' => $nonce,
    'gasPrice' => 1,
    'gasCoin' => 'MNT',
    'type' => MinterBuyCoinTx::TYPE,
    'data' => [
         'coinToBuy' => 'MNT',
         'valueToBuy' => '1',
         'coinToSell' => 'TEST'
    ],
    'payload' => '',
    'serviceData' => ''
]);

$tx->sign('your private key')
```

* Sign the <b>CreateCoin</b> transaction

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;
use Minter\SDK\MinterCoins\MinterCreateCoinTx;

$tx = new MinterTx([
    'nonce' => $nonce,
    'gasPrice' => 1,
    'gasCoin' => 'MNT',
    'type' => MinterCreateCoinTx::TYPE,
    'data' => [
        'name' => 'TEST COIN',
        'symbol' => 'TEST',
        'initialAmount' => '100',
        'initialReserve' => '10',
        'crr' => 10
    ],
    'payload' => '',
    'serviceData' => ''
]);

$tx->sign('your private key')
```

* Sign the <b>DeclareCandidacy</b> transaction

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;
use Minter\SDK\MinterCoins\MinterDeclareCandidacyTx;

$tx = new MinterTx([
    'nonce' => $nonce,
    'gasPrice' => 1,
    'gasCoin' => 'MNT',
    'type' => MinterDeclareCandidacyTx::TYPE,
    'data' => [
        'address' => 'Mxa7bc33954f1ce855ed1a8c768fdd32ed927def47',
        'pubkey' => 'Mp023853f15fc1b1073ad7a1a0d4490a3b1fadfac00f36039b6651bc4c7f52ba9c02',
        'commission' => '10',
        'stake' => '5'
    ],
    'payload' => '',
    'serviceData' => ''
]);

$tx->sign('your private key')
```

* Sign the <b>Delegate</b> transaction

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;
use Minter\SDK\MinterCoins\MinterDelegateTx;

$tx = new MinterTx([
    'nonce' => $nonce,
    'gasPrice' => 1,
    'gasCoin' => 'MNT',
    'type' => MinterDelegateTx::TYPE,
    'data' => [
        'pubkey' => 'Mp0eb98ea04ae466d8d38f490db3c99b3996a90e24243952ce9822c6dc1e2c1a43',
        'coin' => 'MNT',
        'stake' => '5'
    ],
    'payload' => '',
    'serviceData' => ''
]);

$tx->sign('your private key')
```

* Sign the <b>SetCandidateOn</b> transaction

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;
use Minter\SDK\MinterCoins\MinterSetCandidateOnTx;

$tx = new MinterTx([
    'nonce' => $nonce,
    'gasPrice' => 1,
    'gasCoin' => 'MNT',
    'type' => MinterSetCandidateOnTx::TYPE,
    'data' => [
        'pubkey' => 'Mp0eb98ea04ae466d8d38f490db3c99b3996a90e24243952ce9822c6dc1e2c1a43'
    ],
    'payload' => '',
    'serviceData' => ''
]);

$tx->sign('your private key')
```

* Sign the <b>SetCandidateOff</b> transaction

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;
use Minter\SDK\MinterCoins\MinterSetCandidateOffTx;

$tx = new MinterTx([
    'nonce' => $nonce,
    'gasPrice' => 1,
    'gasCoin' => 'MNT',
    'type' => MinterSetCandidateOffTx::TYPE,
    'data' => [
        'pubkey' => 'Mp0eb98ea04ae466d8d38f490db3c99b3996a90e24243952ce9822c6dc1e2c1a43'
    ],
    'payload' => '',
    'serviceData' => ''
]);

$tx->sign('your private key')
```

* Sign the <b>RedeemCheck</b> transaction

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;
use Minter\SDK\MinterCoins\MinterRedeemCheckTx;

$tx = new MinterTx([
    'nonce' => $nonce,
    'gasPrice' => 1,
    'gasCoin' => 'MNT',
    'type' => MinterRedeemCheckTx::TYPE,
    'data' => [
        'check' => 'your check',
        'proof' => 'created by MinterCheck proof'
    ],
    'payload' => '',
    'serviceData' => ''
]);

$tx->sign('your private key')
```

* Sign the <b>Unbound</b> transaction

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;
use Minter\SDK\MinterCoins\MinterUnboundTx;

$tx = new MinterTx([
    'nonce' => $nonce,
    'gasPrice' => 1,
    'gasCoin' => 'MNT',
    'type' => MinterUnboundTx::TYPE,
    'data' => [
        'pubkey' => 'Mp....',
        'coin' => 'MNT',
        'value' => '1'
    ],
    'payload' => '',
    'serviceData' => ''
]);

$tx->sign('your private key')
```

* Calculate fee of transaction
```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;

$tx = new MinterTx([....]);

$tx->getFee();
```

* Get hash of encoded transaction
```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;

$tx = new MinterTx([....]);
$sign = $tx->sign('your private key');

$hash = $tx->getHash();
```

* Get hash of decoded transaction
```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;

$tx = new MinterTx('Mx....');

$hash = $tx->getHash();
```

### Decode transaction

Returns an array with transaction data

###### Example

* Decode transaction

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;

$tx = new MinterTx('string tx');

// $tx->from, $tx->data, $tx->nonce ...

```

### Create Minter Check

###### Example

* Create check

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterCheck;

$check = new MinterCheck([
    'nonce' => $nonce,
    'dueBlock' => 999999,
    'coin' => 'MNT',
    'value' => '10'
], 'your pass phrase');

echo $check->sign('your private key here'); 

// Mc.......

```

* Create proof

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterCheck;

$check = new MinterCheck('your Minter address here', 'your pass phrase');

echo $check->createProof(); 
```

Commit message:

Add "events" to block response

README.md, after:

# Minter PHP SDK

## About

This is a pure PHP SDK for working with <b>Minter</b> blockhain

## Installing

```bash
composer require minter/minter-php-sdk
```

## Using MinterAPI

You can get all valid responses and full documentation at [Minter Node Api](https://minter-go-node.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api.html)

Create MinterAPI instance

```php
use Minter\MinterAPI;

$nodeUrl = 'http://156.123.34.5:8841'; // example of a node url

$api = new MinterAPI($nodeUrl);
```

### getBalance

Returns coins list and balance of an address.

``
getBalance(string $minterAddress): \stdClass
``

###### Example

```php
$api->getBalance('Mxfe60014a6e9ac91618f5d1cab3fd58cded61ee99')

// result: {MTN: 1000000, TESTCOIN: 2000000}

```

### getNonce

Returns current nonce of an address.

``
getNonce(string $minterAddress): integer
``

###### Example

```php
$api->getNonce('Mxfe60014a6e9ac91618f5d1cab3fd58cded61ee99')

// 5
```

### send

Returns the result of sending <b>signed</b> tx.

``
send(string $tx): \stdClass
``

###### Example

```php
$api->send('f873010101aae98a4d4e540000000000000094fe60014a6e9ac91618f5d1cab3fd58cded61ee99880de0b6b3a764000080801ca0ae0ee912484b9bf3bee785f4cbac118793799450e0de754667e2c18faa510301a04f1e4ed5fad4b489a1065dc1f5255b356ab9a2ce4b24dde35bcb9dc43aba019c')

// {code: 0, tx: "Mt2f37ad1c22cf912c02a9f00c735a039d7da3169b"}
```

### getTransactionsFrom

Returns list of outgoing transactions of an address

``
getTransactionsFrom(string $minterAddress): \stdClass
``

###### Example

```php
$api->getTransactionsFrom('Mxfe60014a6e9ac91618f5d1cab3fd58cded61ee99')

// result: {code: 0, result: [{ height: 1, index: 0, proof: ..., tx: 'Mx...', tx_result: {...} }]}
```

### getTransactionsTo

Returns list of incoming transactions of an address

``
getTransactionsTo(string $minterAddress): \stdClass
``

###### Example

```php
$api->getTransactionsTo('Mxfe60014a6e9ac91618f5d1cab3fd58cded61ee99')

// result: {code: 0, result: [{ height: 1, index: 0, proof: ..., tx: 'Mx...', tx_result: {...} }]}
```

### getStatus

Returns node status info

``
getStatus(): \stdClass
``

### getValidators

Returns list of active validators

``
getValidators(): \stdClass
``

### estimateCoinBuy

Return estimate of buy coin transaction

``
estimateCoinBuy(string $coinToSell, string $valueToBuy, string $coinToBuy): \stdClass
``

### estimateCoinSell

Return estimate of sell coin transaction

``
estimateCoinSell(string $coinToSell, string $valueToSell, string $coinToBuy): \stdClass
``

### getCoinInfo

Returns information about coin.

``
getCoinInfo(string $coin): \stdClass
``

### getBlock

Returns block data at given height. Set $withEvents to "true" to include the "events" in block data.

``
getBlock(int $height, $withEvents = false): \stdClass
``

### getTransaction

Returns transaction info

``
getTransaction(string $hash): \stdClass
``

### getBaseCoinVolume

Returns amount of base coin (BIP or MNT) existing in the network. It counts block rewards, premine and relayed rewards.

``
getBaseCoinVolume(int $height): \stdClass
``

### getCandidate

Returns candidate’s info by provided public_key. It will respond with 404 code if candidate is not found.

``
getCandidate(string $publicKey): \stdClass
``

### getCandidates

Returns list of candidates

``
getCandidates(): \stdClass
``


## Using MinterSDK

### Sign transaction

Returns a signed tx

###### Example

* Sign the <b>SendCoin</b> transaction

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;
use Minter\SDK\MinterCoins\MinterSendCoinTx;

$tx = new MinterTx([
    'nonce' => $nonce,
    'gasPrice' => 1,
    'gasCoin' => 'MNT',
    'type' => MinterSendCoinTx::TYPE,
    'data' => [
        'coin' => 'MTN',
        'to' => 'Mxfe60014a6e9ac91618f5d1cab3fd58cded61ee99',
        'value' => '10'
    ],
    'payload' => '',
    'serviceData' => ''
]);

$tx->sign('your private key')
```

* Sign the <b>SellCoinTx</b> transaction

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;
use Minter\SDK\MinterCoins\MinterSellCoinTx;

$tx = new MinterTx([
    'nonce' => $nonce,
    'gasPrice' => 1,
    'gasCoin' => 'MNT',
    'type' => MinterSellCoinTx::TYPE,
    'data' => [
         'coinToSell' => 'MNT',
         'valueToSell' => '1',
         'coinToBuy' => 'TEST'
    ],
    'payload' => '',
    'serviceData' => ''
]);

$tx->sign('your private key')
```

* Sign the <b>BuyCoinTx</b> transaction

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;
use Minter\SDK\MinterCoins\MinterBuyCoinTx;

$tx = new MinterTx([
    'nonce' => $nonce,
    'gasPrice' => 1,
    'gasCoin' => 'MNT',
    'type' => MinterBuyCoinTx::TYPE,
    'data' => [
         'coinToBuy' => 'MNT',
         'valueToBuy' => '1',
         'coinToSell' => 'TEST'
    ],
    'payload' => '',
    'serviceData' => ''
]);

$tx->sign('your private key')
```

* Sign the <b>CreateCoin</b> transaction

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;
use Minter\SDK\MinterCoins\MinterCreateCoinTx;

$tx = new MinterTx([
    'nonce' => $nonce,
    'gasPrice' => 1,
    'gasCoin' => 'MNT',
    'type' => MinterCreateCoinTx::TYPE,
    'data' => [
        'name' => 'TEST COIN',
        'symbol' => 'TEST',
        'initialAmount' => '100',
        'initialReserve' => '10',
        'crr' => 10
    ],
    'payload' => '',
    'serviceData' => ''
]);

$tx->sign('your private key')
```

* Sign the <b>DeclareCandidacy</b> transaction

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;
use Minter\SDK\MinterCoins\MinterDeclareCandidacyTx;

$tx = new MinterTx([
    'nonce' => $nonce,
    'gasPrice' => 1,
    'gasCoin' => 'MNT',
    'type' => MinterDeclareCandidacyTx::TYPE,
    'data' => [
        'address' => 'Mxa7bc33954f1ce855ed1a8c768fdd32ed927def47',
        'pubkey' => 'Mp023853f15fc1b1073ad7a1a0d4490a3b1fadfac00f36039b6651bc4c7f52ba9c02',
        'commission' => '10',
        'stake' => '5'
    ],
    'payload' => '',
    'serviceData' => ''
]);

$tx->sign('your private key')
```

* Sign the <b>Delegate</b> transaction

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;
use Minter\SDK\MinterCoins\MinterDelegateTx;

$tx = new MinterTx([
    'nonce' => $nonce,
    'gasPrice' => 1,
    'gasCoin' => 'MNT',
    'type' => MinterDelegateTx::TYPE,
    'data' => [
        'pubkey' => 'Mp0eb98ea04ae466d8d38f490db3c99b3996a90e24243952ce9822c6dc1e2c1a43',
        'coin' => 'MNT',
        'stake' => '5'
    ],
    'payload' => '',
    'serviceData' => ''
]);

$tx->sign('your private key')
```

* Sign the <b>SetCandidateOn</b> transaction

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;
use Minter\SDK\MinterCoins\MinterSetCandidateOnTx;

$tx = new MinterTx([
    'nonce' => $nonce,
    'gasPrice' => 1,
    'gasCoin' => 'MNT',
    'type' => MinterSetCandidateOnTx::TYPE,
    'data' => [
        'pubkey' => 'Mp0eb98ea04ae466d8d38f490db3c99b3996a90e24243952ce9822c6dc1e2c1a43'
    ],
    'payload' => '',
    'serviceData' => ''
]);

$tx->sign('your private key')
```

* Sign the <b>SetCandidateOff</b> transaction

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;
use Minter\SDK\MinterCoins\MinterSetCandidateOffTx;

$tx = new MinterTx([
    'nonce' => $nonce,
    'gasPrice' => 1,
    'gasCoin' => 'MNT',
    'type' => MinterSetCandidateOffTx::TYPE,
    'data' => [
        'pubkey' => 'Mp0eb98ea04ae466d8d38f490db3c99b3996a90e24243952ce9822c6dc1e2c1a43'
    ],
    'payload' => '',
    'serviceData' => ''
]);

$tx->sign('your private key')
```

* Sign the <b>RedeemCheck</b> transaction

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;
use Minter\SDK\MinterCoins\MinterRedeemCheckTx;

$tx = new MinterTx([
    'nonce' => $nonce,
    'gasPrice' => 1,
    'gasCoin' => 'MNT',
    'type' => MinterRedeemCheckTx::TYPE,
    'data' => [
        'check' => 'your check',
        'proof' => 'created by MinterCheck proof'
    ],
    'payload' => '',
    'serviceData' => ''
]);

$tx->sign('your private key')
```

* Sign the <b>Unbound</b> transaction

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;
use Minter\SDK\MinterCoins\MinterUnboundTx;

$tx = new MinterTx([
    'nonce' => $nonce,
    'gasPrice' => 1,
    'gasCoin' => 'MNT',
    'type' => MinterUnboundTx::TYPE,
    'data' => [
        'pubkey' => 'Mp....',
        'coin' => 'MNT',
        'value' => '1'
    ],
    'payload' => '',
    'serviceData' => ''
]);

$tx->sign('your private key')
```

* Calculate fee of transaction
```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;

$tx = new MinterTx([....]);

$tx->getFee();
```

* Get hash of encoded transaction
```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;

$tx = new MinterTx([....]);
$sign = $tx->sign('your private key');

$hash = $tx->getHash();
```

* Get hash of decoded transaction
```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;

$tx = new MinterTx('Mx....');

$hash = $tx->getHash();
```

### Decode transaction

Returns an array with transaction data

###### Example

* Decode transaction

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterTx;

$tx = new MinterTx('string tx');

// $tx->from, $tx->data, $tx->nonce ...

```

### Create Minter Check

###### Example

* Create check

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterCheck;

$check = new MinterCheck([
    'nonce' => $nonce,
    'dueBlock' => 999999,
    'coin' => 'MNT',
    'value' => '10'
], 'your pass phrase');

echo $check->sign('your private key here'); 

// Mc.......

```

* Create proof

```php
use Minter\SDK\MinterCheck;

$check = new MinterCheck('your Minter address here', 'your pass phrase');

echo $check->createProof(); 
```
